Best practice content writing for hotel descriptions  

1. Hotel name
Check the correct name of the hotel against its official website. The name w e give the hotel on our website should be identical. 

2. Short introduction
Word couunt for short introduct ion: ~ 30 - 40 words
The purpose of this short introduction is to explain succinctly why we’d recommend this hotel: why have we hand-picked it? It should highlight the main benefits of staying at the hotel. 
In practice 
'Just a five-minute walk from Cuzco’s  main square, the El Mercado Tunqui is proud of its heritage as part of the city’s old farmers’  market. The modern decor is contrasted with objects from local life that reflect its past.'
Tip:  Avoid time-sensitive references that could soon become out- of-date, for example ‘brand -new hotel’.  

3. Main Hotel introduction
Word count range f or hotel introduction: ~ 100– 200 words
This wording for is the starting paragraphs of the main body text about the hotel. It expands on the reasons why we’ve chosen this hotel, which the short intro touches upon. It elaborates on the style and feel of the hotel, rather than specific features, which are liable to change. It can include any information that is essential for documentation. 
In practice 
'The El Mercado Tunqui is unassuming from the outside, but stepping over the threshold you find yourself standing on the stone flags of a courtyard where Cuzco’s  farmers once traded. All the rooms, arranged over three floors, look  down over balustrades on to this central space that nods to its past life through lovely decorative touches, such as the traditional hats that line the walls of the lobby. When the weather’s  fine, breakfast and afternoon tea are served in the courtyard, and you can sit here to enjoy an evening drink from the adjoining bar. Boutique in style and size, the choice of rooms is still wide enough to accommodate single occupants, couples and families.'     
Tip: Don’t get too specific as details can change, for example avoid referencing the number of rooms. 

4. Location
Word c ount f or location: ~ 60 words
This section focuses on the benefits of the location but also makes the reader aware of any pragmatic considerations. It can mention nearby attractions or the nearest areas for eating and hopping, and how long i t takes t o reach them. 
In practice 
'El Mercado Tunqui is a five-minute walk, along an attractive street lined with traditional, balconied colonial houses, from the Plaza de Armas, the main square in the heart of Cuzco. Many of the restaurants and cafes are either on or just off the plaza, which is the focal point of city life in the day and evening.'
    
5. Room intro
Word count for room  intro:  ~ 100 words
An easy-reference section that displays  the top-level details on the room choices of the hotel. It shouldn’t  drill into  too much detail, to save  the information becoming out of date, but aim to provide the most important features. Confirm the following room  facilities/amenities:  en suite bathroom (but not bath v shower); air conditioning; Wi-Fi. 
In practice 
“The hotel offers four room choices, each accommodating up to four people. The smallest, but still spacious, option is the superior twin. Next in size, t he junior suite comes in two arrangements: twin beds or a king size bed. There’s also one suite, designed to accommodate a king-size bed or two double beds, which features a large separate bathroom. All rooms include a private bathroom, smart TV and Wi-Fi connection, and are air conditioned. Please note: the layout of the rooms may not appeal to some, as part of the bathroom is open to the bedroom in all except the suite, but still offers privacy.' 

6. Food & drink
Word co unt for eating & dr inking: ~ 60 words
An easy-reference bullet section that lists the top-level eating and drinking options in the hotel. It shouldn’t drill into too much detail, to save the information becoming out of date, but aim to provide the most important features. A starting set of bullet points, which you can adapt and add to, is in the hotel writing template, which you should use alongside this guidance.
In practice 
•Buffet breakfast served daily in the dining room.
•Lima Restaurant offering dinner  in the evenings, with a menu that uses seasonal ingredients.
•Inca Bar offering drinks in the evenings, and a varied cocktail menu .

7. Facilities and Activities
Word co unt for fa cilities: ~ 60 words
An easy-reference bullet section that lists the key facilities the hotel offers, such as swimming pool/s, laundry, spa, and so on. Also include any unusual or bespoke features, such as the hot springs at Colca Lodge in Peru . Starting suggestions for the bullets are in the hotel writing template , which you should use alongside this guidance.

Paragraph spacing: 
Put a line space between paragraphs  
