Best practice content writing for hotel descriptions  

1. Hotel name
Check the correct name of the hotel against its official website. 

2. Short introduction
Word couunt for short introduction: ~ 30 - 40 words
The purpose of this short introduction is to explain succinctly why we’d recommend this hotel: why have we hand-picked it? It should highlight the main benefits of staying at the hotel. 
Tip:  Avoid time-sensitive references that could soon become out- of-date, for example ‘brand -new hotel’.  

3. Main Hotel introduction
Word count range f or hotel introduction: ~ 100– 200 words
This wording for is the starting paragraphs of the main body text about the hotel. It expands on the reasons why we’ve chosen this hotel, which the short intro touches upon. It elaborates on the style and feel of the hotel, rather than specific features, which are liable to change. It can include any information that is essential for documentation.     
Tip: Don’t get too specific as details can change, for example avoid referencing the number of rooms. 

4. Location
Word c ount f or location: ~ 60 words
This section focuses on the benefits of the location but also makes the reader aware of any pragmatic considerations. It can mention nearby attractions or the nearest areas for eating and hopping, and how long i t takes t o reach them. 
    
5. Room intro
Word count for room  intro:  ~ 100 words
An easy-reference section that displays  the top-level details on the room choices of the hotel. It shouldn’t  drill into  too much detail, to save  the information becoming out of date, but aim to provide the most important features. Confirm the following room  facilities/amenities:  en suite bathroom (but not bath v shower); air conditioning; Wi-Fi. 

6. Food & drink
Word count for eating & drinking: ~ 60 words
An easy-reference bullet section that lists the top-level eating and drinking options in the hotel. It shouldn’t drill into too much detail, to save the information becoming out of date, but aim to provide the most important features. A starting set of bullet points, which you can adapt and add to, is in the hotel writing template, which you should use alongside this guidance.

7. Facilities and Activities
Word count for facilities: ~ 60 words
An easy-reference bullet section that lists the key facilities the hotel offers, such as swimming pool/s, laundry, spa, and so on. Also include any unusual or bespoke features, such as the hot springs at Colca Lodge in Peru . Starting suggestions for the bullets are in the hotel writing template , which you should use alongside this guidance.

Paragraph spacing: 
Put a line space between paragraphs  
